---
title: GSoC Update- Mid of Phase 1
date: 2017-06-10 05:51:36 +05:30
categories:
- personal
- gsoc
tags:
- coala
layout: single
---

Hey folks, hope everyone is doing great in this summer vaccation season. I saw statistics released from Google lately and was really happy to know that my university had the third highest number of GSoC students selected in the world :). Anyways, in this blog post I'll summarize my work for these past two weeks.

## TLDR;
Here's what I was upto last two weeks.

- Implemented modules for representing information and extracting information.
- Created upstream issues for some of the things, would be probably working on them on my own if time allows (stretch goals)
- Added Appveyor continuous integration for windows.
- Added Travis CI on my project.

## What's next?

In the upcoming weeks, I'll be working on writing extraction modules for extracting information of interest to coala from common kinds of meta-files. If you're wondering what these files are, well they are:
- `package.json`
- `Gruntfile.js`
- `Gulpfile.js`
- `Gemfile`
- `.editorconfig`

## A deeper dive into my work

These 2 weeks have been a good learning experience to me. I got to learn more about Object oriented functionalities in python and I explored the world of hosted Continuous Integration and Delivery platforms in-depth.

### Week 1

The primary tasks for this week were to create a working prototype for the cEP (coala's Enhancement Proposal) that I proposed. Having a cEP in advance made it easier for me to take design specific decisions (I'm kinda starting to like "plan well before implement" stuff approach as opposed to the Hackathon-like approaches where I just dived into implementation and the see where it ends up). I wrote extensive tests for both of my modules, namely `Info` and `InfoExtctor`. Another important decision that I had to make was the directory structure and location of these modules (should these go into `coalib` or just remain in `quickstart`). After discussion with my mentors we agreed upon keeping them in quickstart's repo only.

I already made a PR for my Week 1 and I expect to get it merged soon.

### Week 2

After weekly meeting of Week 1, we ended up modifying our proposed timeline. As suggested by one of the maintainers (John), we shifted the continuous Integration tasks from Phase 3 to Phase 1 and decided to push everything in the timeline downwards by 1 week. I believe that it was a good decision because it is better to catch and fix platform specific issues earlier during implementation rather than having them reported later (prevention is better than cure!).

So in the second week, I worked on adding Continuous Integration platforms Appveyor and Travis CI to coala-quickstart similar to other existing coala repositiories. It turned out to more reigorous and complicated than I expected and I ended up making around ~90 attempts to get all of them working at once (that's probably due to my wrong approach of doing things the hit-and-trial way, I should have understood concepts first and then tried to build things from scratch, but nevermind, that's how you learn :P). Finally I ended up making them work successfully and I'm very happy about it (earlier I used to shy away from issues related to CI but I don't think now I'll ever do that).


So after the first two weeks, I was able to set up a basic structure and CI system for my upcoming Tasks.

That's all folks! Stay tuned for more updates...